Scene 1: What is a computer? How does it work? What is computer science? Does this mean coding? Is this subject teaching me science like Biology and physics? Or is this teaching me arts like painting or writing poetry? What is inside that magic box called a computer which everybody uses to do almost everything these days?These are some of the overarching questions you might have.

Scene 2: Let's understand what is a computer by using a simple yet familiar example - Cooking.
A group of six friends, CPU (boy), OS (girl), RAM (boy), Drive (boy), GPU (girl) and Cache (girl) decide to cook together for their friend, Sensor's birthday party. CPU is the master chef. He is an expert in cooking and baking all kinds of dishes, be it Khambir, Rajma, Modur Pulav, Rogan Josh or Falooda. He is great at arithmetic, be it adding, subtracting flavours to hit the taste mark or doing logical comparisons of spices while tossing the right amount of it to make the dish stand out. Being a master-chef, he also gets to control what the other friends do and when they do it. But CPU cannot remember all the recipes on his own and has to always ask for the recipe and ingredients list from his friend RAM who keeps a list of the steps, ingredients and the groceries. But wait!, it is not a single dish that is going to be served, right? CPU can't manage to cook several dishes at the same time. And that's were OS helps him. She is the sous-chef with a special ability to help CPU switch between different recipes at the same time without messing any of the recipes.
It might look like the Drive, GPU and Cache are left with no work. But don't be quick to judge! All dishes have to be completed at the earliest by 12pm and this is impossible to achieve without Cache. 
Correction for Abida: Cache is the superwoman who stores all the recently used ingredients and ingredients that are used together for a recipe in a special recipe box and quickly passes it to CPU. 

So now, CPU doesn't have to wait long to get it all the way from RAM. But there is only so much even a superwoman can handle. When CPU couldn't find the ingredients he's looking from cache, he got to go get it from RAM.  GPU is another boss, just like the CPU, but she specializes so much more in plating and presentation. She not only knows how to serve the food right but also captures it well with her stunning photography skills. Annnd, finally, the sumptuous dinner is served in big tables. GPU takes hundreds of georgeous photos of the party and passes it to Drive to save Sensor's photo album. You might be wondering, why Drive to store the photos? RAM is the one storing and handling (recipe) files, right? We all have our own limitations and so does RAM. He is fast and can be accessed any time but slows down if he handles more requests. On the other hand, Drive can store several hundreds to thousands of photos but is slower than RAM. They make an amazing group of friends with varied skillsets but excellent team spirit, Don't they? 
Followed the story? If you did, Voila!, you have got what a computer actually is and how it works too. Before we could see how the computer story translates to what is inside the computer, I will let you think about the story for a while. 
In the next video, we will see what is inside the magic box that we call the computer.