(Eshal comes to Rumansel with a bleating cry)
Scene 1
Part 1: Eshal: Rumansel, you forget everything when you sit with your mobile phone. I'm hungry! And yet again you lost track of your lunch time. Didn't you?
Rumansel: Oh yes! You should be hungry and I just realized that my stomach is making those crazing sounds too!

Part 2: Abida: Rumansel is now an expert in not just creating digital artifacts like google slides but she is also an aspiring super digital citizen who treds carefully in the internet world. But is this enough to ensure her digital health and wellbeing? Is Rumansel using the social media compulsively and addictively? Does she feel like she's being controlled by technology? How Is this affecting her every day life?  

Part 3: Some of the ways through which Rumansel can make sure that she is in control of technology are:
Rumansel can set screen-free times throughout the day and make sure she doesn't use technology during those times. She could simply take a walk with Eshan or spend time with family replacing her screen time. 

Part 4: Rumansel could practice taking regular digital breaks while she is taking a class or working on an assignment or while playing or watching a movie online. This could include simple stretching, breathing and eye exercises.

Part 5: 
AI.S.H.A: Why don't you follow me for some quick stretches? 
(AI.S.H.A demonstrates some stretches and breathing techniques)
Chair Pose: Bend through both knees and sit back as if you are sitting on a chair. Lift arms above your head. Stay in this pose for 10 seconds.
Forward bend fairy: flip yourself upside down and feel the heaviness in your head and hands. Slightly bend your knees, and clasp your hands (or wings!) behind your back by bringing your arms over your head.  Breathe in, and breathe out for few seconds. Feel the stretch between your shoulder blades and thighs and then with hands on hips, slowly come back up and stand.
Turtle Pose: Sit on floor and spread your legs straight, take a nice big inhale, and on the exhale bend forward stretches your hands back. Close your eyes, rest your head on floor  and breathe as slowly and deeply as you can.  
Lion's breath: Put one hand on your belly, take a deep breath in through your nose until your lungs are completely full. You will feel your belly grow big. Keep your chest up while exhaling through your mouth with your tongue out by making a 'ha' sound. Repeat the same for 5 times.
Part 6: Abida:
Besides practicing digital well-being and staying safe online, Rumansel could also talk about this to her friends at school and her community to spread the word about responsible digital citizenship.
Finally, do checkoout (can we recommend TV channels specific for Kashmiri context?) quality age-appropriate media like TV shows, games and more.  And while you do that, don't forget to take digital breaks!