Scene 3:  In the last video we heard a story about a group of friends cooking. How does it relate to what is inside a computer?
To understand this, let's understand what's a hardware and software first: 

Hardware: The mechanical parts that you can see outside a computer. Examples: wires, keyboard, mouse, sensors(Input devices), speaker, monitor, printer, actuators (Output devices), CPU, memory, circuits, chips, etc

Software: The parts that you cannot see from outside but can see through the monitor (computer screen). Example: instruction, code or programs, apps, webpages, videos, games, operating system etc. The recipes in the recipe book translates to the different kinds of software that are stored and processed by CPU and computer memory. On a deeper level these recipes are all converted to a basic form of software called binary (0's & 1's) for the computer to understand. Binary is also called machine language or computer's language. 

Scene 4: 
CPU: Remember the master chef? A CPU (Central Processing Unit) is the master chip and hardware part of the computer which performs all the operations and processing - arithmetic & Logic and also controls all other computer parts by sending and receiving signals to and from the memory and other computer parts.  

RAM is the Random Access Memory which is the main memory/primary memory hardware of a computer. It stores instructions and data processed by the CPU. Instructions are precisely the code or the software that we write. Just like recipes in recipe books. Data is just like the ingredients. Random Access Memory (RAM) is the temporary memory whose data is lost when the power supply is turned off. RAM can be accessed for both reading and writing and can store huge amount of information. You might have heard people saying "I have a 4GB RAM"(GB is Gigabyte). What's that? Let's understand. 8 bits = 1 byte . A byte is the smallest unit of information needed to store a character and 1GB = 10^9 bytes.  Today's computers and mobile phones can have a RAM of 1 GB to 64 GB or more.  See how big the RAM is? But not as big as a human brain, right? (laughs). 
Infact there is another type of memory called Read Only Memory (ROM). As the name says, information in ROM is only written once but can be read as many times. It is the permanent storage and doesn't get erased with accidental power cuts. ROM is smaller and slower than RAM. In fact ROM stores all the instructions 
for the input output system or BIOS for loading the computer hardware. 
Illustration - BIOS (Basic Input Output System)
ROM also helps load the operating system (OS) for the computer to get started and running.
OS: Our Sous-chef with exceptional management and scheduling skills. The Operating System acts as a bridge between the software (apps, browsers, chats, music, games) and hardware (memory, CPU and Input/Output and so on). OS decides the amount of memory to allocate for a specific application or to monitor the status of the tasks executed by the CPU. It is responsible for switching between the different tasks or software that is run on a computer. Some most common operating systems include Windows, Mac and Linux. And android and ios for mobiles.

Cache: Remember the superwoman who tosses those ingredients to CPU in lightining speed. CPUs have caches inbuilt in them. Caches allow faster access to instruction and data compared to fetching it from main memory but they are limited in their capacity when compared to RAM. If the CPU cannot find the data or instructions in the cache memory, it experiences a cache miss and then decides to make a request to the main memory. Cache stores the most recently used data or instructions because they are likely to be used by the program again. This is called temporal locality. It also stores the sequence of data or instructions that are likely to be accessed together again in blocks. This is called spatial locality. 

GPU:  How could we forget this girl with her mindblowing presentation skills and keen eye for imagery? GPU, the Graphics Processing Unit performs multiple productive tasks. GPU works in close co-ordination with the CPU to process specific tasks like graphics processing and render videos and games much faster than what a stand-alone CPU would do. Today's CPUs come with built-in GPUs. The GPUs perform specialized graphical functions that are computationally intensive and that could be run in parallel.  The rest of the code runs in the CPU. Hence there are specific applications that can benefit from running both in a CPU and a GPU.  

Drive: Oh boy! he is the one with the magic wand hand! The hard disk drive. Disk drives are secondary storage in a computer used to store large amount of files as an alternative to main memory. The hard disk drive has a moving arm and read/write head which reads or writes data to the platter through magnetic storage. Each platter has two surfaces and each surface has several tracks and sectors. Every sector can store typically 512 bytes of data.  Drives are slower than main memory because it has moving parts. There are two types of Drives. Hard disk drive and Solid State Drive. Most computers today prefer solid state drives because of their faster access time compared to hard disk drive. 

I hope you all enjoyed the computer story and learnt about the different parts of a computer and their functions. Learning about computer science becomes more meaningful if we know what's inside this magic box, right?