Scene 1:  The computer story was great isn't it? But wait, wondering where is the birthday boy, Sensor? Well, he's busy smelling, tasting and appreciating the dinner. That's what sensors are there for. Sensors are input devices which can sense and receive real world information such as temperature, pressure, light, smoke, color, flow, sound, touch, speed, direction etc and feed it to the computer for some processing and output. For example, all offices and industries are equipped with smoke sensors to detect smoke and sound an alarm through actuators. See how this is a computer on it's own? Infra-red temperature sensors in thermometers are used to sense body temperature or fever by sensing infra-red energy radiated by the body, one of the important symptoms of pandemics like corona virus.  Proximity sensors are used in vehicle parking systems. Burglar alarms, GPS navigation, wearable LED dresses in fashion industry, mobile phones, smart watches, cars, a toothbrush, a barbie doll or a plush unicorn toy who could repeat what you say, are all much more examples of computers sensing all around us. After processing, the output is communicated to the user through actuators like an actuator arm in a hard disk drive, steering in self-driving cars or a robotic arm that picks an object. They might not have all hardware and software of a typical computer, but they are still mini embedded computers which can get their job done. 

Scene 2: (Show the figure of an Input-Process-Output model of a computer)
Let's take a look at the basic input process output model of a computer. This is how every computing machine works. The input to a computer system could be from sensors like the temperature or touch or it could be from devices like keyboard and mouse which is used to type a code or program. Did you ever wonder who wrote that recipe book and all the ingredients list in the computer story? It's definitely not CPU, RAM, Drive, GPU, OS or Cache. Who then? It's a real human (Insert a wink here). Because computers cannot think on their own. They are unimaginably faster than humans but they need precise instructions and data to accomplish a task - just like the recipe book and the recipes. This is called the input.
The output is the result of the processing that users observe through different kinds of actuators like robotic arms, motors or simply through output devices such as monitor screen or printer.
Remember when I said computers cannot think on their own? Well that could be an understatement. In the next video we will find the answer to whether computers can be trained to think like humans, or not!