--- Video 16: Nature's best algorithms - coding for the metamorphosis ---
Nature has some of the best algorithms of all. The life cycle of an insect - familiarly called as metamorphosis is a great example of a sequence of steps involved in an algorithm. Starting from a egg, the hungry caterpillar eats eats and eats and becomes a big caterpillar, 1000 times it's birth weight. He then builds a small house around himself called a cocoon and pushes his way out into a beautiful butterfly. Algorithm: ● Egg ● Caterpillar or Larva stage ● Pupa or chrysalis stage ● The adult butterfly
To code for projects like these, we follow the computational thinking concept called decomposition, i.e to break down the project into simple tasks to work with. Let first select the butterfly sprite and egg sprite. Let's delete the other costume of the egg sprite and place these sprites in the correct position on stage. Since the caterpillar sprite is missing in the sprite library, we will draw a caterpillar sprite. We will use the paint tool to paint our sprite as needed. Similarly we will draw a cocoon sprite and give name to our sprites. We will also select a backdrop for our project.
Now to the code. When the green flag is clicked, we will let the egg sprite to change costume to egg-a. When green flag is clicked, we need to hide the other sprites. When the egg sprite is clicked, we need to broadcast the message "egg hatched". When the caterpillar sprite receives the message "egg hatched", he needs to show up right next to the egg sprite. For this purpose, we will drag the caterpillar sprite closer to egg and use the go to block to set the caterpillar location. We will set the size to 50% to make the caterpillar look small. Use the glide block to make the caterpillar glide to the left corner and use the change size block to make the caterpillar grow in size. 
When the caterpillar sprite is clicked, we broadcast the message, "big fat caterpillar". When the cocoon sprite receives the message "big fat caterpillar", it shows up. 
When the cocoon sprite is clicked, we broadcast the message, "cocoon". When the caterpillar sprite receives the message "cocoon", the butterfly shows up. Also when the green flag is clicked we want the butterfly to go to a position near by the cocoon.  When the butterfly is clicked, we want it to glide to the right corner of the screen. Let's check this out now. Wonderful! That works! We have just coded for the metamorphosis.
(The below script is not included) 
Have you ever thought about how water keeps moving in different ways on, above and below the surface of the earth? Water from the surface of the water bodies evaporates or rises to the air to form water vapour. This process is called evaporation. Due to low temperatures in high altitudes, these vapours become tiny droplets of water and ice forming clouds. This process is known as condensation. When more water droplets merge  together, they fall out of the clouds to the ground as rainfall. This process is known as precipitation. When the air pressure is low or when the weather is too cold, the droplets freeze to form snow. The water from the rainfall flows down to the moutain and hills forming rivers and gets collected in water bodies. This process is known as collection. These sequence of steps are what we call as the water cycle. 
Algorithm:
● Evaporation
● Condensation
● Precipitation
● Collection