Part 9: (Yahya shows the google slides he made on wild edibles)
Yahya: Mom, look at the model I created for my digital library on wild edibles. I have collected the data from research papers on wild edibles in Kashmir. I have also interviewed friends, family and people from the community to add inputs to my model. 
Part 10:
(screensharing)
I didn't know that there are so many varieties of wild edibles which are abundant sources of vitamins and minerals. These fruits, leaves, seeds and even roots could be a great dietary supplement for children and could reduce the impact of stunting and wasting too.  For example, the Chandheer fruit is a rich source of Vitamin C; a handful of walnuts can provide children with the omega 3 fatty acids that they need for the entire day. The Socchal leaves are a great source of phytonutrients and the mulberry fruit improves digestive health and controls blood sugar levels. And look I have added all the references from which I took up these pictures and information. I'm currently reviewing my model to add tha caveats and implement changes. This should be done soon.   
Part 11:
Mom: Well done Yahya! Proud of you! You are a design thinker already and you know what it takes to model a specific solution or story frame for a seemingly vast and challenging problem. 
Part 12: 
Abida:  
We saw how yahya used a design thinking approach to create a digital library of resources for solving malnutrition in children. 
There are other examples of solving problems too. 
Part 12.1: Nitya is working on a paper boat that doesn't sink easily while teaching her brother about origami paper folding.
Part 12.2: Rani wants to address the problem of overflowing Garbage from the public dustbin in her community. She is working on recreating the rectangular shape of the bin which created spills. 
(Use the below pointers for illustration purpose)
- Prepare materials required for prototype (Cardboard, Glue, scissors, papers, etc)
- Create the cylindrical shape based on the optimum diameter
- Compare and contrast the cylindrical and rectangular designs
Part 12.3: Vishesh wants to amuse his little sister with his problem solving and logical thinking skills. He is working on creating as many objects as he could, using 5 triangles, 2 rectangles and 1 pentagon. 
Now it's your turn. You could be a problem solver too!
Now it's your turn! You could be a problem solver too. All you need to do is pick a problem close to your heart, empathize, sketch questions, imagine story frames, choose one and create a model to review and recreate a better solution. Record a video discussing about your problem, the steps you followed to arrive at the solution such as the interviews you conducted, the story frames and finally describe the model or prototype that you created.