Scene 1: Part 1:
In the last video, we learnt how to code for events and use a broadcast event to code for one of the nature's best algorithms - metamorphosis.  In this video, we will learn about infinite loops and how to code for one in scratch. But first, let's discuss some emotions. Anger is a completely normal human emotion. Infact, scientists like Charles Darwin proposed that animals developed emotions for survival and to prevent themselves from underisable situations. Emotions like disgust for example prevented them from eating food that's bad for them. Fear helped them protect them from predators. But when these emotions go beyond one's control, it consumes us instead of protecting us. 
Part 2: The emotion of anger, for example, when not controlled could extend for a prolonged period of time and cause harmful effects on health, mind and overall quality of life. This is called the infinite loop of anger (Show the infinite loop of anger diagram)
Part 3: Our planet earth rotates on an infinite loop around the sun. The waterfalls flowing continuously from up above the mountains, our heart beating indefinitely from our mother's womb, jumping on trampolines or even walking are all examples of infinite loops. The same action keep on repeating continuosly. If we were to write an algorithm for walking, then we would put it inside an infinite loop or 'forever loop' which would look like this,
In case we want to walk only a specific number of steps, then we will use a repeat block as follows by specifying the number of times to repeat the action.
Now, let's get to code for an infinite loop. Remember Eshal, the pet sheep of Rumanzel? Eshal gets sad and angry when Rumanzel doesn't feed him on time. When Eshal is angry, his heart races and he goes into an infinite loop of running up and down the living room. Let's see how to code for this in scratch,
When the green flag is clicked, we want Eshal to walk infinitely. To do this, we use the when flag clicked block and the forever block from the control palette.  
We will use the 'move steps' block from the 'Motion' section and latch it inside the forever loop. But this will make Eshal walk past the screen. 
To make him bounce back when he reaches the edge, we use the 'If on edge bounce' block from the motion section. But doing this will make Eshal flip upside down. 
To correct this, use the set rotation style block from the motions palette and select the rotation style as left-right.
You will now see that Eshal doesn't flip upside down but he strides infinitely. This is not good for Eshal. 

Escaping from the infinite loop of anger: 
I have created four different sprites for Eshal each representing an emotion - Sad, Angry, Balance and Compassion. To let the sprites communicate with each other, we will use the sending and receiving broadcast events. To show these emotions in a sequence, we will use specific broadcast messages as events to trigger specific emotions. When each sprite is clicked, the sprite communicates it's emotion using the variable 'emotion' whose value keep changing throughout the code. The current emotion is broadcast as a variable and used to trigger the subsequent emotion. Let's divide the code for each sprite and work on one sprite at a time (This is precisely called as decomposition or dividing the problem into smaller tasks to work with and working on one task at a time to later combine the solution for a bigger problem. Even professional coders or programmers today use this technique while working on bigger projects).
Sad Eshal: 

 ● When green flag is clicked, we want the sad Eshal to show up and say that he's sad. At the same time, we want to hide all other sprites. 
 ● Let's also choose a backdrop for our project. 
 ● Click on 'Make a variable' from the Variables palette and create a new variable called 'emotion'. (It's a good programming convention to create meaningful variable names. ● Drag the 'set count to 0' block from the variables section. This will initialize the variable value to 0. Initializing means giving a value to the variable. We will initialize the value of emotion variable to 'sad'. As Eshal is initially sad because he is hungry. ● Drag a 'think' block from the 'looks' palette and make Eshal think 'I'm exhausted and hungry' for 3 seconds. Let's check this out. That works. When green flag is clicked, Eshal thinks "I'm exhausted and hungry"

When the Eshal sprite is clicked, he needs to say "I am sad". To do this, get the 'when this sprite clicked' block from the events palette. Get the 'say' block from the 'looks' palette. We want Eshal to communicate his emotions whenever we click on him. To do this, get the join block from the 'operators' palette. Write the text "I am" in the space on left. Drag the emotion block from the variables section and put it in the space on the right. ● Make the sad Eshal wait for 3 s before we hide him ● Hide the sprite and broadcast the message "I'm emotion" by placing the join block inside the broadcast block. Join the text "I am" and the variable 'emotion'. When you click on the sad Eshal, he will say "I am sad".

Angry Eshal:

● We want the angry Eshal to show up when he receives the message, "I am sad". Drag the "When I receive" block from the events palette and the show block from the 'looks' palette.
● Set emotion variable to the value 'angry'.
● Instead of running into an infinite loop of anger, Eshal needs to stop striding after sometime. To do this, we use a repeat block and set the number to 250. This will make Eshal repeat moving 10 steps for 250 times. He will also bounce if he is touching the edge as we add the if on edge bounce block. 
● When Eshal is clicked, he will say "I am angry". Follow the same procedure to print the emotion variable using the set and join blocks.
● We want Eshal to take atleast 3 long deep breaths to calm down and communicate with anger. Use the 'think' block from the 'looks' palette to make Eshal say, "Let me take some deep breaths" for 2 seconds and hide the sprite for Angry Eshal. 
● Broadcast the message "I'm emotion" by placing the join block inside the broadcast block. Join the text "I'm" and the variable 'emotion'.
We are faced with a similar problem now. The Eshal sprite flips upside down again. Let's fix it by using the set rotation style block again and set it to left-right.
